dkan/docs/community/welcome.rst, before:

Welcome!
=========

Slack
~~~~~~

Give and get help in the `DKAN Slack community! <https://dkan.slack.com/>`_

This community resource is for DKAN developers and users to share how they're using the platform, help answer each other's questions, discuss improvements they'd like to see, and find ways to contribute to DKAN.

You'll meet developers, open source and open data enthusiasts, city, state, and government officials, scientists, and more interesting people all working toward a more transparent, smarter, more data-driven world.

**Join the community**

- `Join the DKAN Slack community <https://dkansignup.herokuapp.com/>`_
- Complete your profile (bio/photo).
- Join as many or as few channels as you'd like (you'll see descriptions for each channel detailing its purpose).


Github
~~~~~~

For developers and contributors:

- `Pull requests welcome! <https://github.com/GetDKAN/dkan>`_ Add a link to the issue it fixes and a detailed description about your fix.
- `Submit an issue at the official DKAN repo <https://github.com/GetDKAN/dkan/issues/new>`_ Please add detailed steps on how to reproduce the error, what version of DKAN you are using, and any environment details that could help expedite work on the problem.

Social Media
~~~~~~~~~~~~
- `DKAN Blog <https://medium.com/dkan-blog>`_
- `DKAN Events <https://www.eventbrite.com/o/dkan-14793986036>`_
- `Twitter <https://twitter.com/getdkan>`_


See our :doc:`Code of Conduct <code-of-conduct>`

Commit message:

Create a branch with the latest code

dkan/docs/community/welcome.rst, after:

Welcome!
=========

We're excited you're here. There are several ways you can get involved with DKAN, but be sure to review our :doc:`Code of Conduct <code-of-conduct>`.

Slack
~~~~~~

Join the `DKAN Slack community! <https://dkan.slack.com/>`_

This community resource is for DKAN developers and users to share how they're using the platform, help answer each other's questions, discuss improvements they'd like to see, and find ways to contribute to DKAN. You'll meet developers, open source and open data enthusiasts, city, state, and government officials, scientists, and interesting people all working toward a more transparent, smarter, data-driven world.

**Join the community**

- `Join the DKAN Slack community <https://dkansignup.herokuapp.com/>`_
- Complete your profile (bio/photo).
- Join as many or as few channels as you'd like (you'll see descriptions for each channel detailing its purpose).

Connect
~~~~~~~~~~~~
- `Follow the DKAN Blog on Medium <https://medium.com/dkan-blog>`_
- `Follow @getDKAN on Twitter <https://twitter.com/getdkan>`_
- `Attend DKAN Events <https://www.eventbrite.com/o/dkan-14793986036>`_

GitHub
~~~~~~

For developers and contributors:

- `Pull requests welcome! <https://github.com/GetDKAN/dkan>`_ Add a link to the issue it fixes and a detailed description about your fix.
- `Submit an issue at the official DKAN repo <https://github.com/GetDKAN/dkan/issues/new>`_ Please add detailed steps on how to reproduce the error, what version of DKAN you are using, and any environment details that could help expedite work on the problem.
