dkan/themes/contrib/radix/README.md, before:

# Radix
Radix is a base theme Drupal and BackdropCMS. It has Sass and Compass support, and makes it easy to build responsive themes.

##Features
1. Works with Panels, Panopoly and Blocks.
2. Components and plugins from Bootstrap.
3. Fixed, fluid and responsive grid system.
4. Responsive Panels with [Radix Layouts](http://drupal.org/project/radix_layouts).
5. Sass awesomeness.
6. Drush intergration: drush radix "My Subtheme".
7. Icons with Font Awesome.
8. Works with Bootswatch themes: drush radix "My Subtheme" --bootswatch=cerulean".

## Distributions using Radix
##### [Open Atrium](http://openatrium.com/)
Open Atrium is an intranet in a box that has group spaces to allow different teams to have their own conversations and collaboration.

##### [Open Academy](http://drupal.org/project/openacademy)
Open Academy is a Drupal distribution that brings the best in web publishing for higher education on a customizable Drupal platform.

##### [Restaurant](http://drupal.org/project/restaurant)
The Restaurant Distribution has everything you need to kickstart your restaurant website. It comes with a menu management system, a reservation system, a customizable blog and events management.

## Support
* Project Page:   http://github.com/radixtheme
* Documentation:  http://radixtheme.github.io/documentation
* Demo:           http://dev-radix.chapterthree.com
* Issue Queue:    https://github.com/radixtheme/radix/issues

## Roadmap
https://github.com/radixtheme/radix/wiki/Roadmap

Commit message:

Updates build-dkan.make from branch 7.x-1.x to branch 7.x-1.11_with_latest_ahoy

dkan/themes/contrib/radix/README.md, after:

# Radix
Radix is a base theme for Drupal and BackdropCMS. It has Bootstrap, Sass, Gulp, Bower, BrowserSync and Font Awesome built-in.

![alt tag](https://www.drupal.org/files/drupal-radix.png)

## Distributions using Radix
##### [Open Atrium](http://openatrium.com/)
Open Atrium is an intranet in a box that has group spaces to allow different teams to have their own conversations and collaboration.

##### [Open Academy](http://drupal.org/project/openacademy)
Open Academy is a Drupal distribution that brings the best in web publishing for higher education on a customizable Drupal platform.

##### [Open Berkeley](http://open.berkeley.edu)
Open Berkeley is a turnkey web platform solution for UC Berkeley campus websites.

##### [Open Restaurant](http://drupal.org/project/restaurant)
The Open Restaurant distribution has everything you need to kickstart your restaurant website. It comes with a menu management system, a reservation system, a customizable blog and events management.

##Features
1. Components and plugins from Bootstrap.
2. Responsive Panels with [Radix Layouts](http://drupal.org/project/radix_layouts).
5. Sass, Gulp, BrowserSync and Font Awesome built-in.
6. Drush intergration: drush radix "My Subtheme".
8. Works with Bootswatch themes: drush radix "My Subtheme" --bootswatch=cerulean".

## Links
* Project Page:   http://www.radixtheme.org
* Documentation:  http://docs.radixtheme.org
* Demo:           http://dev-radix.chapterthree.com
* Support:        https://www.drupal.org/project/issues/radix
