dkan/test/README.md, before:

At NuCivic we use [Behat](http://behat.org) for behavioral testing, both locally and in a [continuous integration using CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/NuCivic/dkan). PHPUnit is also used for functional  Tests are run on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/NuCivic/dkan) on every push and merge, but can also be run locally.

## Behat tests

The `behat.yml` file that ships with DKAN is intended for use on CircleCI. When running tests locally, we recommend making a copy of `behat.local.demo.yml` and overriding Behat's default profile there. 

Obviously, steps will differ depending on your development environment. 

Assuming you have a working DKAN installation you wish to test on:

1. Download [Selenium standalone server v 2.48.2](http://selenium-release.storage.googleapis.com/2.48/selenium-server-standalone-2.48.2.jar) anywhere to your local Mac/Linux machine.
2. Download the [Chrome Driver for Selenium](https://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/ChromeDriver) to the same machine.
3. `$ java -jar /path/to/selenium-server-standalone-2.48.2.jar -p 4444 -Dwebdriver.chrome.driver="/path/to/chromedriver"`
4. Make a copy of `behay.local.demo.yml` called `behat.local.yml`. Edit it to point the files path to the absolute path to your test/files directory as accessed on your host/local machine (probably within the folder you share with vagrant).
5. `bin/behat --config=behat.local.yml`

Your tests should run from the VM and use your host machine as a Selenium server, meaning any Selenium tests will run in an instance of Chrome on your machine.


### Behat Tags
 - **@add_ODFE** Enables ODFE
 - **@ahoyRunMe** label only
 - **@api** Enables the Drupal API Driver
 - **@customizable** Exclude scenario on client sites when testing customizable functionality
 - **@datastore** Drops the table after testing
 - **@deleteTempUsers** Delete any tempusers that were created outside of 'Given users'
 - **@disablecaptcha** Disables captcha config if it is enabled, then restores config after the test
 - **@dkanBug** label only
 - **@enableFastImport** Enables fast import
 - **@enableDKAN_Workflow** Enables dkan_workflow
 - **@fixme** label only
 - **@globalUser** Populates the global user with the current user
 - **@javascript** switches the current Mink session to Selenium2
 - **@mail** Setup the testing mail system, then restore original mail system
 - **@no-main-menu** used to skip tests that requires a link in the main menu
 - **@noworkflow** label only
 - **@ok** label only
 - **@pod_json_valid** label only
 - **@pod_json_odfe** label only
 - **@remove_ODFE** Disables ODFE
 - **@testBug** label only
 - **@timezone** Sets the timezone for tests and restores the timezone afterwards.
 - **@Topics** label only
 
 **Unique tag per scenario pattern**
 
 To allow customized sites to skip specific tests we are adding a unique tag to every scenario. The pattern is the feature name followed by a two digit numerical value. So the pod.feature scenarios are tagged like this: @pod_01, @pod_02, @pod_03, etc.


## PHPUnit tests

Starting from 1.13 PHPUnit tests were added into DKAN core. All tests can be found inside the `/phpunit` directory separated in different test suites, one per DKAN module.
  
Follows the steps that are needed for running PHPUnit tests locally:
  
1. Edit the configuration on `boot.php` if needed. The `$dir` variable needs to point to the actual DKAN working directory.
2. If you are using the [DKAN Starter docker/ahoy environment](http://dkan-starter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docker-dev-env/installation.html), get to the Docker cli prompt: `ahoy docker exec bash`.
3. Go to `/test` folder.
4. Run `composer install`.
5. You can execute all available PHPUnit by running `bin/phpunit --configuration phpunit`

PHPUnit will load the configuration from `/test/phpunit/phpunit.xml`.

### Running specific tests

PHPUnit allows you to easily filter tests that are going to be executed by using the `--filter <pattern>` option.
 
For example:

```sh
# Execute all tests inside "TestCaseClass":
bin/phpunit --configuration phpunit --filter TestCaseClass
# Execute only "testMethod":
bin/phpunit --configuration phpunit --filter testMethod
```

For additional options or more detailed information on how to use PHPUnit please check the [PHPUnit Documentation]( https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/textui.html)

Commit message:

Updates build-dkan.make from tag 7.x-1.13.6 to branch 6220_content_original_usr

dkan/test/README.md, after:

DKAN uses [Behat](http://behat.org) for behavioral testing, both locally and in a [continuous integration using CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/NuCivic/dkan). PHPUnit is also used for functional  Tests are run on [CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/NuCivic/dkan) on every push and merge, but can also be run locally.

## Behat tests

The `behat.yml` file that ships with DKAN is intended for use on CircleCI. When running tests locally, we recommend making a copy of `behat.local.demo.yml` and overriding Behat's default profile there. 

Obviously, steps will differ depending on your development environment. 

Assuming you have a working DKAN installation you wish to test on:

1. Download [Selenium standalone server v 2.48.2](http://selenium-release.storage.googleapis.com/2.48/selenium-server-standalone-2.48.2.jar) anywhere to your local Mac/Linux machine.
2. Download the [Chrome Driver for Selenium](https://code.google.com/p/selenium/wiki/ChromeDriver) to the same machine.
3. `$ java -jar /path/to/selenium-server-standalone-2.48.2.jar -p 4444 -Dwebdriver.chrome.driver="/path/to/chromedriver"`
4. Make a copy of `behay.local.demo.yml` called `behat.local.yml`. Edit it to point the files path to the absolute path to your test/files directory as accessed on your host/local machine (probably within the folder you share with vagrant).
5. `bin/behat --config=behat.local.yml`

Your tests should run from the VM and use your host machine as a Selenium server, meaning any Selenium tests will run in an instance of Chrome on your machine.

### Behat Tags
 - **@add_ODFE** Enables ODFE
 - **@ahoyRunMe** label only
 - **@api** Enables the Drupal API Driver
 - **@customizable** Exclude scenario on client sites when testing customizable functionality
 - **@datastore** Drops the table after testing
 - **@deleteTempUsers** Delete any tempusers that were created outside of 'Given users'
 - **@disablecaptcha** Disables captcha config if it is enabled, then restores config after the test
 - **@dkanBug** label only
 - **@enableFastImport** Enables fast import
 - **@enableDKAN_Workflow** Enables dkan_workflow
 - **@fixme** label only
 - **@globalUser** Populates the global user with the current user
 - **@javascript** switches the current Mink session to Selenium2
 - **@mail** Setup the testing mail system, then restore original mail system
 - **@no-main-menu** used to skip tests that requires a link in the main menu
 - **@noworkflow** label only
 - **@ok** label only
 - **@pod_json_valid** label only
 - **@pod_json_odfe** label only
 - **@remove_ODFE** Disables ODFE
 - **@testBug** label only
 - **@timezone** Sets the timezone for tests and restores the timezone afterwards.
 - **@Topics** label only
 
 **Unique tag per scenario pattern**
 
 To allow customized sites to skip specific tests we are adding a unique tag to every scenario. The pattern is the feature name followed by a two digit numerical value. So the pod.feature scenarios are tagged like this: @pod_01, @pod_02, @pod_03, etc.

## PHPUnit tests

Starting from 1.13 PHPUnit tests were added into DKAN core. All tests can be found inside the `/phpunit` directory separated in different test suites, one per DKAN module.
  
*Running PHPUnit tests locally:*

Using Ahoy:
```sh
# To run all the tests:
ahoy dkan unittests
 
# To run an individual test:
ahoy dkan unittests dkan_harvest/HarvestCacheTest.php
```

Manually:  
1. Edit the configuration on `boot.php` if needed. The `$dir` variable needs to point to the actual DKAN working directory.
2. If you are using the [DKAN Starter docker/ahoy environment](http://dkan-starter.readthedocs.io/en/latest/docker-dev-env/installation.html), get to the Docker cli prompt: `ahoy docker exec bash`.
3. Go to `/test` folder.
4. Run `composer install`.
5. You can execute all available PHPUnit by running `bin/phpunit --configuration phpunit`

PHPUnit will load the configuration from `/test/phpunit/phpunit.xml`.

### Running specific tests

PHPUnit allows you to easily filter tests that are going to be executed by using the `--filter <pattern>` option.
 
For example:

```sh
# Execute all tests inside "TestCaseClass":
bin/phpunit --configuration phpunit --filter TestCaseClass
# Execute only "testMethod":
bin/phpunit --configuration phpunit --filter testMethod
```

For additional options or more detailed information on how to use PHPUnit please check the [PHPUnit Documentation]( https://phpunit.de/manual/current/en/textui.html)
